## Overview

The `Collection` interface is the foundation upon which the `Java Collections Framework` is built.
It represents a group of objects, known as `elements`.

## Characteristics

- **General Purpose**: It is the most general interface for collection operations.
- **Iterable**: It extends the Iterable interface, so you can iterate over the elements of a collection.
- **Homogeneous Elements**: While it can hold any type of object, typically, a collection is used to hold objects of a single type.

## Core Methods

### 1. Basic Operations:

`boolean add(E e)`: Adds an element to the collection.

`boolean remove(Object o)`: Removes a single instance of the specified element.

`boolean contains(Object o)`: Returns true if this collection contains the specified element.

`int size()`: Returns the number of elements in this collection.

`boolean isEmpty()`: Checks if the collection is empty.

`void clear()`: Removes all of the elements from this collection.

### 2. Bulk Operations:

`boolean addAll(Collection<? extends E> c)`: Adds all of the elements in the specified collection to this collection.

`boolean removeAll(Collection<?> c)`: Removes all of this collection's elements that are also contained in the specified collection.

`boolean retainAll(Collection<?> c)`: Retains only the elements in this collection that are contained in the specified collection.

`boolean containsAll(Collection<?> c)`: Returns true if this collection contains all of the elements in the specified collection.

### 3. Array Operations:

`Object[] toArray()`: Converts the collection into an array.

`<T> T[] toArray(T[] a)`: Converts the collection into an array of a specific runtime type.

### 4. Iterator:

`Iterator<E> iterator()`: Returns an iterator over the elements in this collection.

```java
Collection<String> fruits = new ArrayList<>();
fruits.add("Apple");
fruits.add("Banana");

System.out.println(fruits.size()); // Output: 2
System.out.println(fruits.contains("Apple")); // Output: true

fruits.remove("Banana");
System.out.println(fruits.isEmpty()); // Output: false

```
