### What is `@SpringBootApplication`?

This annotation enables:

- Auto configuration `@EnableAutoConfiguration`
- Component scanning `@ComponentScan`
- Additional configuration `@Configuration`

### What is `SpringApplication` class?

It is used to bootstrap our application,
Behind the scenes, it creates application context and registers all beans, starts the embedded server `Tomcat` etc...

### What is Spring Boot Actuator?

Exposes endpoints to monitor and manage your application
you easily get DevOps functionality (reloading) out-of-the-box.

simply add the dependency to your POM file

REST endpoints are automatically added to your application

Endpoints are prefixed with: `/actuator`

- `/health` health information about your application
- `/info` information about your project

### What is Health Endpoint?

`/health` checks the status of your application

### What is Info Endpoint?

It is empty by default.

update application.properties with your app info

`info.app.name=My super app`

(start with info.)

like

```txt
	info.app.name = ?
	info.app.version = ?
```

### What happens at startup?

Spring boot framework will trigger the autoconfiguration jar, and will look through classes in the class path

### What is the difference between SOAP and Rest API?

In SOAP we use `XML` as request exchange format.

SOAP defines a specific request and response structure.

SOAP ENVELOPE and inside it are

- #### HEADER Meta
  information like authentication, authorization and , signatures etc
- #### BODY real data

  you can use either HTTP or MQ,
  the service definition is done using WSDL(Web service definition language)

- ### Rest Web Services:

  Representation state transfer.

  The service definition is done using `WASl`(not popular) and `SWAGGER`(awesome)
