### AutoWiring FAQ: What if there are Multiple Implementations?

Spring has special support to handle this case. Use the `@Qualifier` annotation.

### NOTE-Constructor Injection:

As of Spring Framework 4.3,
an `@Autowired` annotation on such a constructor is no longer necessary if the target bean only defines one constructor to begin with.

However, if several constructors are available, at least one must be annotated to teach the container which one to use.

### What is a Field Injection?

Inject dependencies by setting field values on your class directly (even private fields)

Accomplished by using Java Reflection

#### NOTE- Annotations, Default Bean Names - The Special Case

In general, when using Annotations, for the default bean name, Spring uses the following rule.

If the annotation's value doesn't indicate a bean name, an appropriate name will be built based on the short name of the class (with the first letter lower-cased).

However, for the special case of when BOTH the first and second characters of the class name are upper case, then the name is NOT converted.
For the case of RESTFortuneService

`RESTFortuneService --> RESTFortuneService`

No conversion since the first two characters are upper case.

### How to use @Qualifier with constructor injection

A -> You have to place the @Qualifier annotation inside of the constructor arguments.

```java
@Autowired
public TennisCoach(
@Qualifier("randomFortuneService") FortuneService theFortuneService
) {

        System.out.println(">> TennisCoach: inside constructor using @autowired and @qualifier");

        fortuneService = theFortuneService;
    }
```

### How to inject properties file using Java annotations?

1. Create a properties file to hold your properties. It will be a name value pair.

   New text file: src/sport.properties

   ```txt
   foo.email=myeasycoach@luv2code.com
   foo.team=Silly Java Coders
   ```

2. Load the properties file in the XML config file.

```xml
<context:property-placeholder location="classpath:sport.properties"/>
```

3. Inject the properties values into your Swim Coach: SwimCoach.java

```java
   @Value("${foo.email}")
   private String email;

   @Value("${foo.team}")
   private String team;
```

### NOTE-HEADS UP - FOR JAVA 9 USERS - @PostConstruct and @PreDestroy

If you are using Java 9 or higher, then you will encounter an error when using @PostConstruct and @PreDestroy in your code.

### What are the ways of Configuring Spring Container?

1. Full XML Config
2. XML Component Scan
3. Java Configuration Class

### How @Bean works behind the scenes?

```java
@Bean
public Coach swimCoach() {
 SwimCoach mySwimCoach = new SwimCoach();
 return mySwimCoach;
}
```

At a high-level, Spring creates a bean component manually.
By default the scope is singleton.
So any request for a "swimCoach" bean,
will get the same instance of the bean since singleton is the default scope.

Behind the scenes, during the @Bean interception, it will check in memory of the Spring container (applicationContext) and see if this given bean has already been created.

If this is the first time the bean has been created then it will execute the method as normal. It will also register the bean in the application context.

So that it knows that the bean has already been created before. Effectively setting a flag.

The next time this method is called, the @Bean annotation will check in memory of the Spring container (applicationContext) and see if this given bean has already been created.

### What is a real-time use case for @Bean?

Here is a real-time use case of using @Bean:

You can use @Bean to make an existing third-party class available to your Spring framework application context.
