### What is Aspect-Oriented Programming?

Programming technique based on concept of an Aspect
Aspect encapsulates cross-cutting logic

`Cross-Cutting Concerns`

`Concern` means logic / functionality.

Aspect can be reused at multiple locations

### What is AOP Solution?

Apply the Proxy design pattern.

There is logic inbetween main app and target object.

### What are benefits of AOP?

Code for Aspect is defined in a single class

1. Much better than being scattered everywhere
2. Promotes code reuse and easier to change.

Business code in your application is cleaner
Configurable

1. Based on configuration, apply Aspects selectively to different parts of app
2. No need to make changes to main application code

#### Most common

1. logging
2. security, transactions

#### Audit logging

1.  who, what, when, where

#### Exception handling

1. log exception and notify DevOps tean via SMS/email

#### API managemennt

1. how many times has a method been called user
2. analytics: what are peak times? what is average load? what is top user?

### What are the disadvantages of AOP?

1. Too many aspects and app flow is hard to follow
2. Minor performance cost for aspect execution (run-time weaving)

### What is AOP Terminology?

- #### Aspect:

  module of code for a cross-cutting concern

- #### Advice:

  What action is taken and when it should be applied

- #### Join Point:

  When to apply code during program execution

- #### Pointcut:
  A predicate expression for where advice should be applied

### What are Advice types?

- #### Before advice:
  run before the method
- #### After finally advice:
  run after the method (finally)
- #### After returning advice:
  run after the method (success execution)
- #### After throwing advice:
  run after method (if exception thrown)
- #### Around advice:
  run before and after method

### What is Weaving?

Connecting aspects to target objects to create an advised object
Different types of weaving:

Compile-time, load-time or run-time.

Regarding performance: run-time weaving is the slowest

### What are the two AOP leading Frameworks?

Spring AOP and AspectJ

- #### SPRING AOP

  1.  Spring provides AOP support
  2.  Key component of spring:
      Security, transactions, caching etc
  3.  Uses run-time weaving of aspects (proxy design pattern)
  4.  Its is a lightweigth AOP implementation

- #### ASPECTJ

  1.  Original AOP framework released in 2001
  2.  Provides complete support for AOP
  3.  Rich support for join points: method-level, constructor, field
      code weaving: compile-time, post compile-time and load-time

### What are the advantages and disadvantages of Spring AOP?

- #### Advantages

  1.  Simpler to use than AspectJ
  2.  uses proxy pattern
  3.  Can migrate to AspectJ when using @Aspect annotation

- #### Disadvantages:

  1.  Only supports method-level join points
  2.  Can only apply aspects to beans created by Spring app context
  3.  Minor performance cost for aspect execution (run-time weaving)

### What are the advantages and disadvantages of AspectJ?

- #### Advantages:

  1.  Support all join points
  2.  Works with any POJO, not just beans from app context 3. Faster performance compared to Spring AOP
  3.  complete AOP support

- #### Disadvantages:

  1.  Compile-time weaving requires extra compilation step
  2.  AspectJ pointcut syntax can become complex

### What is a Pointcut Expression Language?

### Spring AOP uses AspectJ's pointcut expression language

Match on Method Name

1.  #### Execution Pointcut:

    `execution(modifiers-pattern? return-type-pattern declaring-type-pattern? method-name-pattern(param-pattern) throws-pattern?)`

    #### Modifiers:

    (Spring AOP only supports public or \_)

    #### Return type:

    void, boolean, String, List<>, ...

    #### Declaring type:

    the class name ...

    The pattern is optional if it has "?"

    #### Examples:

    ```java

    	// Match only addAccount() method in AccountDAO class
    	@Before("execution(public void com.luv2code.aopdemo.dao.AccountDAO.addAccount())")

    	//Match any addAccount() method in any class
    	@Before("execution(public void addAccount())")


    	//Match on method names (using wildcards)
    	@Before("execution(public void add*())")

    	// Use wildcards on modifier and return type
    	@Before("execution(\* * processCreditCard*())")

    	// any modifier and any return
    	// Match on methods in a package
    	@Before("execution(* com.luv2code.aopdemo.dao.\_.\_(..))")

    ```

### What are Parameter Pattern Wildcards?

For param-pattern

1. `()` - matches a method with no arguments
2. `(\_)` - matches a method woth one argument of any type
3. `(..)` - matches a method with 0 or more arguments of any type

### What are the benefits of Pointcut Declarations?

- Easily reuse pointcut expressions.
- Update pointcut in one location
- Can also share and combine pointcut expressions
- Configuration:
  ```java
  @Configuration
  @EnableAspectJAutoProxy
  @ComponentScan("com.luv2code.aopdemo")
  public class DemoConfig {
  }
  ```
