- ## Immutable Objects

  An immutable object is an object whose internal state remains constant after it has been entirely created.
  This means that the public API of an immutable object guarantees us that it will behave in the same way during its whole lifetime.

  If we take a look at the class String, we can see that even when its API seems to provide us a mutable behavior with its replace method, the original String doesn’t change:

  ```java
  String name = "baeldung";
  String newName = name.replace("dung", "----");

  assertEquals("baeldung", name);
  assertEquals("bael----", newName);
  ```

- ## The `final` Keyword

  In Java, variables are mutable by default, meaning we can change the value they hold.
  By using the final keyword when declaring a variable, the Java compiler won’t let us change the value of that variable. Instead, it will report a compile-time error:

  ```java
  final String name = "baeldung";
  name = "bael..."; // error
  ```

  Note that final only forbids us from changing the reference the variable holds, it doesn’t protect us from changing the internal state of the object it refers to by using its public API:

  ```java
  final List<String> strings = new ArrayList<>();
  assertEquals(0, strings.size());
  strings.add("baeldung");
  assertEquals(0, strings.size());
  ```

  The second assertEquals will fail because adding an element to the list changes its size, therefore, it isn’t an immutable object.

  Building the API of an immutable object requires us to guarantee that its internal state won’t change no matter how we use its API.

  A step forward in the right direction is to use final when declaring its attributes:

  ```java
  class Money {
      private final double amount;
      private final Currency currency;

      // ...
  }
  ```

  Note that Java guarantees us that the value of amount won’t change, that’s the case with all primitive type variables.

  However, in our example we are only guaranteed that the currency won’t change, so we must rely on the Currency API to protect itself from changes.

  Most of the time, we need the attributes of an object to hold custom values, and the place to initialize the internal state of an immutable object is its constructor:

  ```java
  class Money {
      // ...
      public Money(double amount, Currency currency) {
          this.amount = amount;
          this.currency = currency;
      }

      public Currency getCurrency() {
          return currency;
      }

      public double getAmount() {
          return amount;
      }
  }
  ```
