- ### What are default methods?

  Before Java 8, interfaces could have only abstract methods.

  The implementation of these methods has to be provided in a separate class.

  So, if a new method is to be added in an interface, then its implementation code has to be provided in the class implementing the same interface

  To overcome this issue,
  Java 8 has introduced the concept of `default methods` which allow the interfaces to have methods with implementation
  without affecting the classes that implement the interface.

- ### Static methods in interfaces?

  The interfaces can have `static methods` as well which is similar to static method of classes.

- ### Difference between Abstract class and Interface

  1.  - Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract methods.
      - Interface can have only abstract methods. Since Java 8, it can have default and static methods also.
  2.  - Abstract class doesn't support multiple inheritance.
      - Interface supports multiple inheritance.
  3.  - Abstract class can provide the implementation of interface.
      - Interface can't provide the implementation of abstract class.
  4.  - An abstract class can be extended using keyword "extends"
      - An interface can be implemented using keyword "implements".
  5.  - A Java abstract class can have class members like private, protected, etc.
      - Members of a Java interface are public by default.

- ### What are categories of datatypes?

  There are 4 categories of data types

  - **Integer** ( default => 0 )

    1.  byte 8bits
    2.  short 16bits
    3.  int 32bits
    4.  long(l) 64bits

  - **Boolean** ( default => false )

    5. boolean 1bit

  - **Floating** ( default => 0.0 )

    6. float(f) 32bits
    7. double(d) 64bits

  - **Character** ( default => '\u0000' )
    use (\u) along with 4-digit hex value or just 'U'

    8.  char 16bits

- ### Operator Precedence?

  | Postfix  | Prefix   | Multiplicative | Additive |
  | -------- | -------- | -------------- | -------- |
  | x++, x-- | ++x, --x | \*, /, %       | +, -     |

- ### What are Wrapper Classes?

  A wrapper class is an object that encapsulates a primitive type. Each primitive type has a corresponding wrapper:

  Each wrapper class has Object as a superclass.

  - Byte, Short, Integer, Long Float and Double have Number as their direct superclass.

  This means that each wrapper class can implement the methods of the Object class such as `hashCode()`, `equals(Object obj)`, `clone()`, and `toString()`.

  Since wrapper objects are reference types, their default value will be `null`.

  This behavior is important to understand when you are choose between using a primitive type or a wrapper object.

  - #### Wrapper Objects are `Immutable`:

  All primitive wrapper objects in Java are final, which means they are `immutable`. When a wrapper object get its value modified,

  the compiler must create a new object and then reassign that object to the original.

  ```java
  public void addOne(Integer i) {
  i = i + 1;
  }
  ```

  This creation and eventual garbage collection of objects will add a lot of overhead, especially when doing large computations in loops.

- ### What is Autoboxing?

  Autoboxing is the automatic conversion of primitive types to their corresponding object wrapper classes.

  ```java
     List<Integer> numbers = new ArrayList<Integer>();
        for(int i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
        numbers.add(i);
        }
  ```

- ### What is Unboxing?

  Unboxing is the automatic conversion of object wrapper types into their corresponding primitive types.

  ```java
     Integer a = new Integer(5);
     int b = a;
  ```

- ### Explaing Equals Behaviour in Autoboxing and Unboxing?

  Autoboxing and Unboxing does not always happen with the `==` operator.

  It will compare the object’s reference in memory.

  When only one of the arguments of the `==` operator is an object and the other is a primitive type, unboxing will occur.

  To avoid situations like this we can use the `.equals()` operator.

- ### When to use Primitive types?

  When doing a large amount of calculations, primitive types are always faster — they have much less overhead.

  When you don’t want the variable to be able to be null.

  When you don’t want the default value to be null.
  If the method must return a value

- ### When to use Wrapper Class?

  When you are using Collections or Generics — it is required

  If you want the `MIN_SIZE` or `MAX_SIZE` of a type.

  If sometimes the method can return a null value.

- ### What are First-Class Functions?

  A Programming language is said to have first-class functions if it treats functions as first-class citizens.

- ### What is a First-Class Citizen?

  A first-class citizen (sometimes called first-class objects) is an entity which supports all the operations generally available to other entities.

  These operations typically include being passed as an argument, returned from a function, and assigned to a variable.

- ### What are closures?

  A closure is a record storing a function together with an environment: a mapping associating each free variable of the function with the value or storage location to which the name was bound when the closure was created.

  A closure, allows the function to access these captured variables through the closure's reference to them, even when the function is invoked outside their scope.

  ```java
  import java.util.function.Function;

   public class ClosureExample {

      public static void main(String[] args) {
         int factor = 10; // A final or effectively final variable
         // The lambda expression here acts as a closure
         Function<Integer, Integer> multiplier = (Integer value) -> value * factor;

         int result = multiply(5, multiplier);
         System.out.println(result); // Output: 50
      }

      public static int multiply(int value, Function<Integer, Integer> func) {
         // The 'func' can access the 'factor' variable from the outer scope
         return func.apply(value);
      }
   }

  ```

- ### What is Lambda Expression?

  The Expression through which we can represent an Anonymous function.

  1.  Anonymous: Nameless/Unknown
  2.  Anonymous Function: A method who dont have any name or modifier.

  ```java
  Function<Integer, Integer> multiplier = (Integer value) -> value * factor;
  ```

- ### Can we write Lambda Expression for every method?

  No.
  Only can be applicable for functional interface.
  The method that is present in functional interface, for that method we can only write it.

  It reduces the boiler plate code, no need to repeat `shit`.

- ### Define Optional object?

  Optional is a container object used to contain not-null objects.

  Optional object is used to represent null with absent value.

  This class has various utility methods to facilitate code to handle values as `available` or `not available` instead of checking null values.

  There are three ways to create Optional object

  1.  empty
  2.  of
  3.  ofNullable

  ```java
     Customer customer = new Customer(101, john, null, Arrays.asList("23323", "323"));

     Optional<Object> emptyOptional = Optional.empty();
     sysout(emptyOptional); // we will get optional.empty()

     Optional<String> emailOptional1 = Optional.of(customer.getEmail());
     sysout(emailOptional1);
     // returns new optional with value after running Objects.requreNonNull(value)
     // if(Null) throw NullPointerException

     Optional<String> emailOptional2 = Optional.ofNullable(customer.getEmail());
     // value == null ? empty() : of(value);
     sysout(emailOptional2);

     // if value is present we will get
     Optional[tramboos123@gmail.com]

     // to get exact value use get
     if(emailOptional2.isPresent()){
     sysout(emailOptional2.get());
     }

     // use default value, if emailOptional2.get() is null
     sysout(emailOptional2.orElse("default@email.com"))

     // thorw customized exception
     sysout(emailOptional2
     .orElseThrow(() -> new IllegalArgumentException("email not present")));
  ```

- ### What is Java Parallel Streams?

  Java Parallel Streams is a feature of Java 8.
  The order of execution is not under our control.

  ```java
     // code starts
     long start = 0;
     long end = 0;

     start = System.currenttiomeMillis();
     IntStream.range(1, 100).forEach(System.out::println);
     end = System.currenttiomeMillis();
     sysout("Time taken: " + (end - start));

     sysout("=============================================");

     start = System.currenttiomeMillis();
     IntStream.range(1, 100).Parallel().forEach(System.out::println);
     end = System.currenttiomeMillis();
     sysout("Parallel Time taken: " + (end - start));
  ```

- ### What is diamond problem?

  Suppose you have the both `Animals` and `Animals1` implementing the same interface `IAnimals`:
  interface `IAnimals`

  ```java
  {
  public string eat();
  }


  abstract class Animals implements IAnimals
  {
     public abstract void run();
     public string eat(){ return "Animals eating"; }
  }

  abstract class Animals1 implements IAnimals
  {
     public abstract void run1();
     public string eat(){ return "Animals1 eating"; }
  }

  // If you now define your Dog class:

  class Dog extends Animals,Animals1
  {
  public void run() {System.out.println("Run method");}
  public void run1() {System.out.println("Run1 method");}
  }
  ```

  It will have the method `eat()` too, which is not abstract so it can use it directly.

  What would be the return of this method for a dog?

  Which string will be returned, the one with `Animals`, or the one with `Animals1`?

- ### What is `entrySet` And `KeySet` in maps?

  Let's create and initialize a `HashMap` whose key is of type String and value is of type Integer:

  ```java
  Map<String, Integer> map = new HashMap<>();
  map.put("one", 1);
  map.put("two", 2);
  ```

  - #### The keySet() Method:

    The keySet() method returns the Set of keys contained in the Map.

    ```java
    Set<String> actualValues = map.keySet();
    assertEquals(2, actualValues.size());
    ```

  - #### The entrySet() Method:

    The entrySet() method returns the set of key-value mappings.

    ```java
    Set<Map.Entry<String, Integer>> actualValues = map.entrySet

    assertTrue(actualValues.contains(new SimpleEntry<>("one", 1)));

    assertTrue(actualValues.contains(new SimpleEntry<>("two", 2)));
    ```

    Here, we've chosen the `AbstractMap.SimpleEntry` implementation of the interface `Map.Entry` for our test.

- ### What is `Comparator` and `Comparable` in Java?

  They are interfaces.

  - #### Comparable:

    ```java
    public class Player implements Comparable<Player> {

       private int ranking;
       private String name;
       private int age;

       // constructor, getters, setters


       @Override
       public int compareTo(Player otherPlayer) {
          return Integer.compare(getRanking(), otherPlayer.getRanking());
       }

    }

    public static void main(String[] args) {
       List<Player> footballTeam = new ArrayList<>();
       Player player1 = new Player(59, "John", 20);
       Player player2 = new Player(67, "Roger", 22);
       Player player3 = new Player(45, "Steven", 24);
       footballTeam.add(player1);
       footballTeam.add(player2);
       footballTeam.add(player3);

       System.out.println("Before Sorting : " + footballTeam);
       Collections.sort(footballTeam);
       System.out.println("After Sorting : " + footballTeam);
    }
    ```

  - #### Comparator:

    The Comparator interface defines a `compare(arg1, arg2)` method with two arguments that represent compared objects, and works similarly to the `Comparable.compareTo()` method.

    To create a Comparator, we have to implement the Comparator interface.

    For our first example, we'll create a Comparator to use the ranking attribute of Player to sort the players:

    ```java
    public class PlayerRankingComparator implements Comparator<Player> {

       @Override
       public int compare(Player firstPlayer, Player secondPlayer) {
          return Integer.compare(firstPlayer.getRanking(), secondPlayer.getRanking());
       }

    }
    ```

    Similarly, we can create a Comparator to use the age attribute of Player to sort the players:

    ```java
    public class PlayerAgeComparator implements Comparator<Player> {

       @Override
       public int compare(Player firstPlayer, Player secondPlayer) {
          return Integer.compare(firstPlayer.getAge(), secondPlayer.getAge());
       }

    }
    ```

    Using this approach, we can override the natural ordering:

    ```java
    PlayerRankingComparator playerComparator = new PlayerRankingComparator();
    Collections.sort(footballTeam, playerComparator);
    ```

    If we want a different sorting order, we only need to change the Comparator we're using

    The Comparable interface is a good choice to use for defining the default ordering, or in other words, if it's the main way of comparing objects.

    Sometimes we can't modify the source code of the class whose objects we want to sort, thus making the use of Comparable impossible

    #### NOTE: Avoiding the Subtraction Trick

    ```java
    Comparator<Player> comparator = (p1, p2) -> p1.getRanking() - p2.getRanking();
    ```

    Although it's much more concise than other solutions, it can be a victim of integer overflows in Java:

    However, due to integer overflow, the `Integer.MAX_VALUE – (-1)` will be less than zero.

- ### What is `Association`, `Aggregation` and `Composition`?

  Association is a relation between two separate classes which establishes through their Objects.

  Association can be `one-to-one`, `one-to-many`, `many-to-one`, `many-to-many`.

  In Object-Oriented programming, an Object communicates to another object to use functionality and services provided by that object.

  Composition and Aggregation are the two forms of association.

  - #### Aggregation:

    Aggregation is a form of association that represents a "`has-a`" relationship between two entities, with a directional association indicating that one class (the whole) can contain or use instances of another class (the part). However, the two classes involved in the aggregation can exist independently.

    ```java
    class Department {
          private List<Professor> professors; // One-to-Many relationship

          public Department() {
             professors = new ArrayList<>();
          }
          // Department methods
       }

       class Professor {
          // Professor methods
       }

    ```

  - #### Composition:

    Composition is a more restricted form of aggregation that represents a strong "`part-of`" relationship, where the lifetime of the part is managed by the whole. If the whole is destroyed, then the parts are also destroyed. The part cannot exist without the whole.

    ```java
    class Book {
          private List<Page> pages; // One-to-Many relationship

          public Book() {
             pages = new ArrayList<>();
          }
          // Book methods

          public void addPage(Page page) {
             pages.add(page);
          }
       }

       class Page {
          // Page methods
       }

    ```

    Composition is a strong Association whereas Aggregation is a weak Association.

- ### What is the difference between a JRE and a JDK?

  Historically, you downloaded just a JRE if you were only interested in running Java programs.

  A JRE includes, among other things, the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) and the "java" command line tool.

  To develop new Java programs, you needed to download a JDK.

  A JDK includes everything the JRE has, as well as the compiler javac and a couple of other tools like `javadoc` (Java documentation generator) and `jdb` (Java Debugger).

  Up until Java 8, the Oracle website offered JREs and JDKs as separate downloads - even though the JDK also always included a JRE in a separate folder.

  With Java 9 that distinction was basically gone, and you are always downloading a JDK. The directory structure of JDKs also changed, with not having an explicit JRE folder anymore.
